---
title: Introduction
description: "Navigate story development from concept to completion in Subtxt"
---

In the **Develop Workspace** of Subtxt, you can guide your story through four key stages of development: **Forming**, **Illustrating**, **Plotting**, and **Writing**. While Subtxt is not built as a rigid, step-by-step process—since the structure of a narrative is relational—these stages are designed to flow in a top-down manner within the workspace, offering you a clear path from idea to execution.

1. **Forming**  
   This is where your story begins. In this stage, you'll transform your initial ideas into the foundation of your narrative by developing the Four Throughlines. This includes defining the Beginning and the End of your story, considering the emotional arcs of your characters, and finalizing the core elements of your Storyform. Forming sets the groundwork, bringing clarity to your narrative's purpose and direction.

2. **Illustrating**  
   Once you have your core structure in place, you'll move to Illustrating, where you start fleshing out the details. This stage is focused on developing Storypoints and Storybeats. Here, you'll add nuance and depth to your story, shaping the narrative by visualizing key moments and interactions that give your story life.

3. **Plotting**  
   In the Plotting stage, all the Storypoints and Storybeats come together. This is where you start weaving the individual threads into a cohesive narrative flow. You'll structure and organize your ideas into a logical sequence, aligning them with your overall Storyform to ensure your story progresses naturally and effectively.

4. **Writing**  
   The final stage is Writing, where you prepare your story for export. This is the stage for making final checks and ensuring everything is in place. Once you've reviewed your narrative structure, you can download the completed outline for use in your preferred writing application, setting you up for the drafting phase.

Each stage is crafted to guide you smoothly through the storytelling process, helping you stay organized while maintaining the creative flexibility that Subtxt offers.