---
title: 'API Reference'
titleTemplate: '%s'
description: Comprehensive guide to accessing story structure data through the Subtxt API
navigation: false
surround: false
---

The Subtxt API allows advanced users to programmatically access the core story structure and narrative insights that drive Subtxt. The API endpoints are a work in progress, and many more will be added in the coming months and years.


::callout
---
icon: i-heroicons-information-circle
---
During the initial rollout of the Subtxt API, users must create an account and subscribe to Subtxt Infinite. We plan to roll out API access options for all subscription tiers in Q3 2025.
::

::card-group{class="sm:grid-cols-1"}
  ::card{title="Storyforms" to="/api-reference/storyforms"}
  Access a complete breakdown of narrative structure within the Subtxt Framework. The Storyforms endpoint provides Throughline-specific details, listing all Perspectives, Storybeats, and key narrative elements for comprehensive analysis and integration.
  ::
  ::card{title="Evaluations" to="/api-reference/evaluations"}
  Objectively assess storytelling for thematic conflict alignment. The Evaluations endpoint allows you to evaluate narrative elements for thematic coherence, ensuring each story component resonates with the intended thematic focus.
  ::
  ::card{title="Storybeats" to="/api-reference/storybeats"}
  Monitor narrative progression and ensure story coherence. The Storybeats endpoint enables you to evaluate and verify the completion of specific story movements, supporting a structured and dynamic storytelling process.
  ::
  ::card{title="NarrativeSync" to="/api-reference/narrative-sync"}
  Align your story ideas with the deep underlying message of your story. Whether you're working on a Storypoint, Storybeat, or Throughline, NarrativeSync ensures your creative process maintains integrity with your story's message.
  ::
::
