---
title: 'Narrative Aspects'
titleTemplate: '%s'
description: 'Learn the building blocks for structuring and exploring stories'
navigation: false
surround: false
---

Whether you’re working on a **Story** or a fully developed **Storyform**, Subtxt offers several key **Narrative Aspects** that you can create and explore. These aspects help shape and organize your narrative, allowing you to dig deeper into the structure and content of your story.

By working with these Narrative Aspects, you can shape a more cohesive and dynamic story, whether you’re still exploring your ideas or honing a structured Storyform.

::card-group{class="sm:grid-cols-1"}
  ::card{icon="i-ph-medal" title="Perspectives" to="/narrative-aspects/perspectives"}
  Perspectives allow you to explore different viewpoints on the same thematic conflict within your story. By assigning specific Storypoints and Storybeats to different Perspectives, you can see how various characters or thematic arguments contribute to the same central issue.
  ::
  ::card{icon="i-ph-folders" title="Overviews" to="/narrative-aspects/overviews"}
  High-level storytelling elements such as Throughline descriptions, plot synopses, and character arcs. These provide a broad picture of your story’s direction and the thematic elements that drive it forward.

  ::
  ::card{icon="i-ph-star" title="Dynamics" to="/narrative-aspects/dynamics"}
  Dynamics represent the forces that operate on the structure of your narrative. They define the forces and pressure points that push your story forward. By working with Dynamics, you can explore how and why characters transform—or why they choose not to—providing deeper insight into the underlying tensions that fuel your story.

  ::
  ::card{icon="i-ph-book-open" title="Players" to="/narrative-aspects/players"}
  The cast of characters that populate your story, solely within the Objective Story Throughline. Characters are organized by function, ensuring they fulfill specific roles within the plot.
  ::

  ::card{icon="i-ph-star" title="Storypoints" to="/narrative-aspects/storypoints"}
  Thematic elements that run throughout the narrative. These are the key ideas and themes that are woven into the fabric of your story, helping to convey its deeper meaning.

  ::
  ::card{icon="i-ph-book-open" title="Storybeats" to="/narrative-aspects/storybeats"}
  The temporal progression of events within your story. Storybeats track how the plot unfolds over time, marking key moments and transitions.
  ::
::
