---
title: Terms of Service
description: Outlining user responsibilities, rights, and conditions for using the Subtxt/Dramatica platform
---


## 1. Introduction

Welcome to the Subtxt/Dramatica platform, the educational application engineered to bolster authors' storytelling abilities, and its digital mentor, Subtxt Muse. These Terms of Service ("Terms") govern your use of the the Subtxt/Dramatica platform, Subtxt Muse, and any related services provided by Narrative First, Inc. ("we", "us", or "our"). By using our app, you agree to be bound by these Terms. If you do not agree to these Terms, you may not access or use our services.

## 2. Account Registration

To use Subtxt/Dramatica and Subtxt Muse, you must create an account. You agree to provide accurate, current, and complete information during the registration process and to update such information to keep it accurate, current, and complete. We reserve the right to suspend or terminate your account if any information provided during the registration process or thereafter proves to be inaccurate, not current, or incomplete.

## 3. License Grant

Subject to your compliance with these Terms, we grant you a limited, non-exclusive, non-transferable, and revocable license to access and use the Subtxt/Dramatica platform and Subtxt Muse for your personal or commercial use.

## 4. Restrictions on Use

You agree not to:

a. Use the Subtxt/Dramatica platform or Subtxt Muse to create or distribute content that is illegal, harmful, or offensive.

b. Reverse-engineer, decompile, disassemble, or otherwise attempt to derive the source code for the Subtxt/Dramatica platform or Subtxt Muse.

c. Rent, lease, sublicense, or otherwise transfer your rights to use the Subtxt/Dramatica platform or Subtxt Muse.

d. Remove, obscure, or alter any copyright, trademark, or other proprietary notices contained in or displayed by the Subtxt/Dramatica platform or Subtxt Muse.

e. Use the Subtxt/Dramatica platform or Subtxt Muse in any manner that could damage, disable, or overburden our servers or networks or interfere with any other users' use of the services.

f. Unauthorized access or use: Users must not access, use, or attempt to gain unauthorized access to any parts of the app, its systems, or networks, or to any user accounts.

g. Automated access and scraping: Users must not use bots, spiders, crawlers, scrapers, or any other automated means to access or collect data from the Subtxt/Dramatica platform or Subtxt Muse without our express written permission.

h. Impersonation: Users must not impersonate others or misrepresent their affiliation with a person or entity.

i. Export control: Users must not use the Subtxt/Dramatica platform or Subtxt Muse in a manner that would violate applicable export control laws or regulations, including but not limited to the U.S. Export Administration Regulations.

j. Fraud and abuse: Users must not use the Subtxt/Dramatica platform or Subtxt Muse for fraudulent or abusive purposes, such as creating or distributing fake reviews, ratings, or endorsements.

k. Sharing accounts: Users must not share their account with others or allow multiple users to access the services under a single account.

l. API usage: to be added later.

m. Security: Users must not compromise the security of the Subtxt/Dramatica platform, Subtxt Muse, or any other user's data by introducing viruses, worms, Trojans, or other malicious code, or by engaging in hacking, phishing, or similar activities.

n. Harm to minors: Users must not use the Subtxt/Dramatica platform or Subtxt Muse to create, distribute, or promote content that is harmful or inappropriate for minors.

o. Intellectual property infringement: Users must not use the Subtxt/Dramatica platform or Subtxt Muse to create or distribute content that infringes on the copyrights, trademarks, patents, or other intellectual property rights of others.

## 4a. Specific Content Restrictions

Users are not permitted to generate the following types of content using Subtxt's AI text-generation service:

- Hate Speech: No content expressing, inciting, or promoting hate based on identity is allowed.
- Harassment: Harassing, threatening, or bullying content is strictly prohibited.
- Violent Material: Promotion, glorification, or celebration of violence, suffering, or humiliation of others is unacceptable.
- Self-harm: We do not permit content promoting, encouraging, or depicting acts of self-harm.
- Sexual Content: Material meant to arouse sexual excitement or promote sexual services, excluding sex education and wellness, is not allowed.
- Political Campaigning: Content intended to influence political processes or for campaigning purposes is not permitted.
- Spam: Users must refrain from generating unsolicited bulk content.
- Deception: False or misleading content, particularly those aimed at defrauding individuals or spreading disinformation, is banned.
- Malware: Attempts to generate harmful software, such as ransomware, keyloggers, or viruses are strictly prohibited.

While initial restrictions may seem inconvenient, they serve as opportunities for users to develop their writing skills and understand the difference between storytelling and storyforming.

## 4b. Consequences of Policy Violation

Any user found to be in violation of these content generation policies will face immediate account suspension without warning. This policy is firmly in place to ensure the integrity and safety of our platform and its users. It should be noted that in the event of an account suspension due to policy violation, no refund will be provided. It is the responsibility of the user to use Subtxt's AI text-generation service in line with our guidelines and regulations. The purpose of this is to foster an environment that encourages creativity, growth, and respect. We appreciate your understanding and cooperation in adhering to these guidelines, thus making Subtxt a safe and constructive space for all users.

## 5. Cancellation of Services and Refunds

You may cancel your account at any time either by using the cancellation feature within the application settings or by directly contacting our customer support. If you cancel your account by contacting our customer support, your right to use the Subtxt/Dramatica platform and Subtxt Muse will cease immediately upon confirmation from our support team. If you choose to cancel within the app, your access to the Subtxt/Dramatica platform and Subtxt Muse will continue until the end of your current billing cycle, whether that is a monthly or yearly subscription, at which point your access will terminate.

We offer a 30-day refund policy that comes into effect starting from the second consecutive month of your subscription. If for any reason you are dissatisfied with our services and wish to request a refund, it's essential to do so within 30 days of your most recent charge. This policy only covers the most recent month's charge and is not applicable during the initial month of purchase.

To proceed with the refund request, kindly contact our customer support with your account information and a comprehensive explanation of your reason for the refund. Please note that the approval of refunds lies solely at our discretion and, if approved, will be processed within a reasonable timeframe after receipt of your request.

## 6. Intellectual Property Rights

### 6.1. Our Intellectual Property

All intellectual property rights, including copyrights, trademarks, and patents, in the Subtxt/Dramatica platform and Subtxt Muse are owned by or licensed to us. You acknowledge and agree that your use of the Subtxt/Dramatica platform and Subtxt Muse does not grant you any rights to our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our licensors, other than the limited license granted in Section 3.

### 6.2. User-Generated Content and Intellectual Property Rights

We acknowledge and agree that you retain all rights, title, and interest in and to the content you create, submit, or generate using the Subtxt/Dramatica platform and Subtxt Muse, including all intellectual property rights therein ("User-Generated Content"). You grant us a limited, non-exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide license to use, reproduce, display, and distribute your User-Generated Content solely for the purpose of providing the services described in these Terms.

We do not claim any ownership rights in your User-Generated Content and will not use your content for any purpose other than providing the services described in these Terms, unless we have obtained your express written permission. By using our app, you represent and warrant that your User-Generated Content does not infringe on the copyrights, trademarks, or other intellectual property rights of any third party.

## 7. Data Usage and Privacy

Subtxt and Subtxt Muse, in providing their respective services, utilize advanced artificial intelligence technologies. However, it is critical for us to clarify how user data interacts with these technologies to dispel any concerns about "scraping" or data-mining.

### 7.1 AI Training and User Data

Despite leveraging state-of-the-art AI technology to deliver meaningful and insightful responses to users' stories, Subtxt and Subtxt Muse are not "trained" on any data provided by the User, with the singular exception of "Illustrations" attached to Storypoints and Storybeats (e.g., "being a superstar" for Being, or "proving oneself to be a problem" for Proven).

These Illustrations, while broad and ultimately anonymous in essence, contribute to refining the AI's understanding of how specific Elements might manifest in a narrative. It is important to note that these general Illustrations are the only data used in this manner. Any content authored in the Storytelling sections, regardless of its form or nature, is not used in any way to improve Subtxt or Subtxt Muse.

### 7.2 User Control over Data Privacy

Users possess the capability to "privatize" all their Illustrations at the point of creation and individually within each Illustration. By privatizing an Illustration, the user ensures that these Illustrations of Elements remain private and will not be utilized for refining the model.

This flexibility ensures that users maintain full control over their data, demonstrating our commitment to user privacy and our respect for the personal nature of the creative process.

### 7.3 Data Security

Subtxt and Subtxt Muse, as part of Narrative First, Inc., are committed to safeguarding user data and respecting user privacy. We employ robust and up-to-date security protocols to ensure the safety and integrity of your data.

By using our services, you acknowledge and accept our data usage practices as outlined in this section.

## 8. Disclaimer of Warranties

The Subtxt/Dramatica platform and Subtxt Muse are provided on an "as is" and "as available" basis. We disclaim all warranties, whether express or implied, including, without limitation, warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, and non-infringement. We do not warrant that the Subtxt/Dramatica platform or Subtxt Muse will be error-free, uninterrupted, or secure, or that any defects will be corrected.

## 9. Limitation of Liability

To the maximum extent permitted by law, we shall not be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, consequential, or exemplary damages, including but not limited to damages for loss of profits, goodwill, use, data, or other intangible losses, resulting from your use of the Subtxt/Dramatica platform or Subtxt Muse, even if we have been advised of the possibility of such damages. In no event shall our total liability to you for all damages, losses, and causes of action, whether in contract, tort (including negligence), or otherwise, exceed the amount paid by you for the Subtxt/Dramatica platform and Subtxt Muse during the 12-month period immediately preceding the event giving rise to the claim.

## 10. Indemnification

You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless Narrative First, Inc., its affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents, and licensors from and against any and all claims, liabilities, damages, losses, costs, and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, arising out of or related to your use of the Subtxt/Dramatica platform or Subtxt Muse, your violation of these Terms, or your infringement of any intellectual property or other rights of any third party.

## 11. Modifications to Terms

We reserve the right, at our sole discretion, to modify or replace these Terms at any time. If a revision is material, we will provide at least 30 days' notice prior to any new terms taking effect. By continuing to access or use our services after any revisions become effective, you agree to be bound by the revised Terms. If you do not agree to the new Terms, you are no longer authorized to use the services.

## 12. Governing Law and Jurisdiction

These Terms shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California, United States of America without regard to its conflict of law provisions. You agree to submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the courts located within the State of California, United States of America for the resolution of any disputes arising out of or relating to these Terms or your use of the Subtxt/Dramatica platform or Subtxt Muse.

## 13. Severability

If any provision of these Terms is found to be unenforceable or invalid, that provision shall be limited or eliminated to the minimum extent necessary so that the remaining provisions of these Terms will otherwise remain in full force and effect.

## 14. Entire Agreement

These Terms constitute the entire agreement between you and us with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior or contemporaneous understandings and agreements, whether written or oral, with respect to such subject matter.

## 15. Contact Information

If you have any questions or concerns about these Terms or our services, please contact us at questions@narrativefirst.com.